question1:
What is a CSS selector? Provide examples of element, class, and ID selectors.

css selector is path for the specific part which you want to style in css. 
it can be done in three way :
   [1] element selector
   [2] id selector
   [3] class selector?
  
    element selctor :
    name is used as selector (specific tag name)
    exa:   h1 {
    color: blue;
    }
    
    id selector:
    only one element specified with unique id

    example:
    #div1{
    margin: auto;
    padding: auto;
    color: blue;
    }

    class selector: 
    specific class name givem , where one needs to be used for more than one time.
    ex:  .class1 {
        background-color: yellow;
    }
    


question2
Explain the concept of CSS specificity. How do conflicts between multiple stylesget
resolved?
---
    CSS specificity is a used to determine which rules should be applied when there are multiple conflicting styles targeting the same element. 
   
    how conflict resolved:
    The rule with the higher specificity wins. Specificity is determined by a system that assigns weights to different types of selectors:

    Inline styles  have the highest weight.
ID selectors (#id) are stronger than class selectors (.class) or element selectors (tag).
Class selectors, attributes are stronger than element selectors



• Question 3: What is the difference between internal, external, and inline CSS? Discuss the
advantages and disadvantages of each approach.

internal:

internal css is used when there in no need of much styling for huge elements set.
it is defined in heading part of code and used using style tag.
<style>
    h1 {
        color: blue;
    }
</style>


advantages:
  -- easy for small code. 
  -- keep html and css in one file only.
  --Does not require external file loading, so styles apply immediately.

disadvantages:
--Increases the size of the HTML file.
--Makes the code harder to maintain for larger projects.

external:

used for large code, external file is made for styling. and linked to html file
link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css"
here styles.css will be file in which styling willl be done.

advantages:
--Allows reuse of the same stylesheet across multiple pages.
--Keeps HTML files clean and smaller in size.
--Easier to maintain for larger projects.

disadvantages:
--style will not be applied if link is not connected
-- might be slow

inline:
written directly into tag by using style attribute into that tag.
h1 style="color: red;">Hello World

advantages:
Applied immediately, without needing a separate file or style block.
disadvantages
-Increases the size of the file.
- not used for large project
- messy and hard to read
